--- Page 1 ---
LivePhoto: Real Image Animation with Text-guided Motion Control
Xi Chen1 Zhiheng Liu2 Mengting Chen2 Yutong Feng2
Yu Liu2 Yujun Shen3 Hengshuang Zhao1

arXiv:2312.02928v1 [cs.CV] 5 Dec 2023

1

2

The University of Hong Kong

Alibaba Group

3

Ant Group

Reference Image

“Kung Fu Panda is practicing Tai Chi.”

Reference Image “Scenery of the Louvre, camera zooms in.”

Reference Image

“Pouring water into the glass.”

Reference Image

“Lightning and thunder in the night sky.”

Reference Image

“A Shiba Inu is running fast.”

Reference Image

“A Shiba Inu is wagging its tail.”

Reference Image

“This man gives a thumbs-up.” Intensity: 3

Reference Image

“This man gives a thumbs-up.” Intensity: 7

Figure 1. Zero-shot real image animation with text control. Besides adequately decoding motion descriptions like actions and camera
movements (row 1), LivePhoto could also conjure new contents from thin air (row 2). Meanwhile, LivePhoto is highly controllable,
supporting users to customize the animation by inputting various texts (row 3) and adjusting the degree of motion intensity (row 4).

Abstract

considering the facts that (1) text can only describe motions
roughly (e.g., regardless of the moving speed) and (2)
text may include both content and motion descriptions,
we introduce a motion intensity estimation module as well
as a text re-weighting module to reduce the ambiguity of
text-to-motion mapping. Empirical evidence suggests that
our approach is capable of well decoding motion-related
textual instructions into videos, such as actions, camera
movements, or even conjuring new contents from thin air
(e.g., pouring water into an empty glass). Interestingly,
thanks to the proposed intensity learning mechanism, our
system offers users an additional control signal (i.e., the
motion intensity) besides text for video customization. The
page of this project is here.

Despite the recent progress in text-to-video generation,
existing studies usually overlook the issue that only spatial
contents but not temporal motions in synthesized videos are
under the control of text. Towards such a challenge, this
work presents a practical system, named LivePhoto, which
allows users to animate an image of their interest with
text descriptions. We first establish a strong baseline that
helps a well-learned text-to-image generator (i.e., Stable
Diffusion) take an image as a further input. We then equip
the improved generator with a motion module for temporal modeling and propose a carefully designed training
pipeline to better link texts and motions. In particular,
1

--- Page 2 ---
1. Introduction

conveniently. Another issue arises from the fact that the
text contains both content and motion descriptions. The
content descriptions translated by stable diffusion may not
perfectly align with the reference image, while the image
is prioritized for content control. Consequently, when
the content descriptions are learned to be suppressed to
mitigate conflicts, motion descriptions are simultaneously
under-weighted. To address this concern, we propose
text re-weighting, which learns to accentuate the motion
descriptions, enabling the text to work compatibly with the
image for better motion control.
As shown in Fig. 1, equipped with motion intensity guidance and text re-weighting, LivePhoto demonstrates impressive abilities for text-guided motion control. LivePhoto
is able to deal with real images from versatile domains and
subjects, and adequately decodes the motion descriptions
like actions and camera movements. Besides, it shows
fantastic capacities of conjuring new contents from thin air,
like “pouring water into a glass” or simulating “lightning
and thunder”. In addition, with motion intensity guidance,
LivePhoto supports users to customize the motion with the
desired intensity.

Image and video content synthesis has become a burgeoning topic with significant attention and broad real-world
applications. Fueled by the diffusion model and extensive
training data, image generation has witnessed notable advancements through powerful text-to-image models [4, 35,
37, 46] and controllable downstream applications [6, 18, 23,
24, 28, 36, 49]. In the realm of video generation, a more
complex task requiring spatial and temporal modeling,
text-to-video has steadily improved [2, 10, 19, 40, 47].
Various works [3, 8, 22, 43, 45] also explore enhancing
controllability with sequential inputs like optical flows,
motion vectors, depth maps, etc.
This work explores utilizing a real image as the initial
frame to guide the “content” and employ the text to control
the “motion” of the video. This topic holds promising
potential for a wide range of applications, including meme
generation, production advertisement, film making, etc.
Previous image-to-video methods [5, 9, 15, 17, 25, 41, 48]
mainly focus on specific subjects like humans or could only
animate synthetic images. GEN-2 [34] and Pikalabs [33]
animate real images with an optional text input, however,
an overlooked issue is that the text could only enhance the
content but usually fails to control the motions.
Facing this challenge, we propose LivePhoto, an image
animation framework that truly listens to the text instructions. We first establish a powerful image-to-video baseline.
The initial step is to equip a text-to-image model (i,e.,
Stable Diffusion) with the ability to refer to a real image.
Specifically, we concatenate the image latent with input
noise to provide pixel-level guidance. In addition, a content
encoder is employed to extract image patch tokens, which
are injected via cross-attention to guide the global identity.
During inference, a noise inversion of the reference image
is introduced to offer content priors. Afterward, following
the contemporary methods [2, 10, 45], we freeze stable
diffusion models and insert trainable motion layers to model
the inter-frame temporal relations.
Although the text branch is maintained in this strong
image-to-video baseline, the model seldom listens to the
text instructions. The generated videos usually remain
nearly static, or sometimes exhibit overly intense movements, deviating from the text. We identify two key issues
for the problem: firstly, the text is not sufficient to describe
the desired motion. Phrases like “shaking the head” or
“camera zooms in” lack important information like moving
speed or action magnitude. Thus, a starting frame and
a text may correspond to diverse motions with varying
intensities. This ambiguity leads to difficulties in linking
text and motion. Facing this challenge, we parameterize the
motion intensity using a single coefficient, offering a supplementary condition. This approach eases the optimization
and allows users to adjust motion intensity during inference

2. Related Work
Image animation. To realize content controllable video
synthesis, image animation takes a reference image as content guidance. Most of the previous works [7, 38, 39, 50, 51]
depend on another video as a source of motion, transferring
the motion to the image with the same subject. Other works
focus on specific categories like fluide [13, 26, 29] or nature
objects [16, 21]. Make-it-Move [15] uses text control but it
only manipulates simple geometries like cones and cubes.
Recently, human pose transfer methods [5, 17, 42, 48]
convert the human images to videos with extra controls
like dense poses, depth maps, etc. VideoComposer [43]
could take image and text as controls, however, the text
shows limited controllability for the motion and it usually
requires more controls like sketches and motion vectors.
In general, existing work either requires more controls
than text or focuses on a specific subject. In this work,
we explore constructing a generalizable framework for
universal domains and use the most flexible control (text)
to customize the generated video.
Text-to-video generation. Assisted by the diffusion
model [11], the field of text-to-video has progressed rapidly.
Early attempts [12, 40, 47] train the entire parameters,
making the task resource-intensive. Recently, researchers
have turned to leveraging the frozen weights of pre-trained
text-to-image models tapping into robust priors. Tune-AVideo [45] inflates the text-to-video model and tuning attention modules to construct an inter-frame relationship with
a one-shot setting. Align-Your-Lantens [2] inserts newly
designed temporal layers into frozen text-to-image models
2

--- Page 3 ---
Content Encoder

ℰ
Reference Image

Reference Latent

Pick First Frame

Noise Latent
Prior Inversion

ℰ

Concat

Frame Embed
Intensity Embed

Noise Latent
Motion
Estimation
Training Procedure Only

B, F, C = 4, H, W

Motion Intensity

𝒟

Reference Latent

ℰ

B, F, C = 10, H, W

1 / 2 / 3 /…/ 10
“A little boy in green
clenches his fists."

Text Encoder

𝒟

Latent Encoder
Latent Decoder
Stable Diffusion
Motion Module

Text Re-weight

Figure 2. Overall pipeline of LivePhoto. Besides taking the reference image and text as input, LivePhoto leverages the motion intensity
as a supplementary condition. The image and the motion intensity (from level 1 to 10) are obtained from the ground truth video during
training and customized by users during inference. The reference latent is first extracted as local content guidance. We concatenate it
with the noise latent, a frame embedding, and the intensity embedding. This 10-channel tensor is fed into the UNet for denoising. During
inference, we use the inversion of the reference latent instead of the pure Gaussian to provide content priors. At the top, a content encoder
extracts the visual tokens to provide global content guidance. At the bottom, we introduce text re-weighting, which learns to emphasize
the motion-related part of the text embedding for better text-motion mapping. The visual and textual tokens are injected into the UNet via
cross-attention. For the UNet, we freeze the pre-trained stable diffusion and insert motion modules to capture the inter-frame relations.
Symbols of flames and snowflakes denote trainable and frozen parameters respectively.

where the noise ϵ ∼ U([0, 1]), and ᾱt is a cumulative
products of the noise coefficient αt at each step. Afterward,
it learns to predict the added noise as:

to make video generation. AnimateDiff [10] proposes to
freeze the stable diffusion [35] blocks and add learnable
motion modules, enabling the model to incorporate with
subject-specific LoRAs [14] to make customized generation. A common issue is that the text could only control
the spatial content of the video but exert limited effect for
controlling the motions.

Ez,c,ϵ,t (∥ϵθ (zt , c, t) − ϵ∥22 ).

t is the diffusion timestep, c is the condition of text prompts.
During inference, Stable Diffusion is able to recover an
image from Gaussian noise step by step by predicting the
noise added for each step. The denoising results are fed into
a latent decoder to recover the colored images from latent
representations as x̂0 = D(ẑ0 ).

3. Method
We first give a brief introduction to the preliminary knowledge for diffusion-based image generation in Sec. 3.1.
Following that, our comprehensive pipeline is outlined in
Sec. 3.2. Afterward, Sec. 3.3 delves into image content
guidance to make the model refer to the image. In Sec. 3.4
and Sec. 3.5, we elaborate on the novel designs of motion
intensity guidance and text re-weighting to better align the
text conditions with the video motion.

3.2. Overall Pipeline
The framework of LivePhoto is demonstrated in Fig. 2.
The model takes a reference image, a text, and the motion
intensity as input to synthesize the desired video. When the
ground truth video is provided during training, the reference
image is picked from the first frame, and the motion
intensity is estimated from the video. During inference,
users could customize the motion intensity or directly use
the default level. LivePhoto utilizes a 4-channel tensor of
zB×F ×C×H×W to represent the noise latent of the video,
where the dimensions mean batch, frame, channel, height,
and width, respectively. The reference latent is extracted
by VAE encoder [20] to provide local content guidance.
Meanwhile, the motion intensity is transformed to a 1channel intensity embedding. We concatenate the noise
latent, the reference latent, the intensity embedding, and a
frame embedding to form a 10-channel tensor for the input
of UNet. At the same time, we use a content encoder to

3.1. Preliminaries
Text-to-image with diffusion models. Diffusion models [11] show promising abilities for both image and video
generation. In this work, we opt for the widely used
Stable Diffusion [35] as the base model, which adapts
the denoising procedure in the latent space with lower
computations. It initially employs VQ-VAE [20] as the
latent encoder to transform an image x0 into the latent
space: z0 = E(x0 ). During training, Stable Diffusion
transforms the latent into Gaussian noise as follows:
zt =

√

ᾱt z0 +

√

1 − ᾱt ϵ,

(2)

(1)
3

--- Page 4 ---
extract the visual tokens of the reference image and inject
them via cross-attention. A text re-weighting module is
added after the text encoder [32], which learns to assign
different weights to each part of the text to accentuate the
motion descriptions of the text. Following modern text-tovideo models [2, 10]. We freeze the stable diffusion [35]
blocks and add learnable motion modules [10] at each stage
to capture the inter-frame relationships.

parameterize the motion intensity using a single coefficient.
Thus, the users could adjust the intensity conveniently by
sliding a bar or directly using the default value.
In our pursuit of parameterizing motion intensity, we
experimented with various methods, such as calculating
optical flow magnitude, computing mean square error between adjacent frames, and leveraging CLIP/DINO similarity between frames. Ultimately, we found that Structural
Similarity (SSIM) [44] produces results the most aligned
with human perceptions. Concretely, given a training video
clip Xn with n frames, we determine its motion intensity I
by computing the average value for the SSIM [44] between
each adjacent frame as in Eq. (4) and Eq. (5):

3.3. Image Content Guidance
The most essential step is enabling LivePhoto to keep the
identity of the reference image. Thus, we collect local
guidance by concatenating the reference latent at the input.
Moreover, we employ a content encoder to extract image
tokens for global guidance. Additionally, we introduce the
image inversion in the initial noise to offer content priors.
Reference latent. We extract the reference latent and
incorporate it at the UNet input to provide pixel-level
guidance. Simultaneously, a frame embedding is introduced
to impart temporal awareness to each frame. Thus, the first
frame could totally trust the reference latent. Subsequent
frames make degenerative references and exhibit distinct
behavior. The frame embedding is represented as a 1channel map, with values linearly interpolated from zero
(first frame) to one (last frame).
Content encoder. The reference latent effectively guides
the initial frames due to their higher pixel similarities.
However, as content evolves in subsequent frames, understanding the image and providing high-level guidance
becomes crucial. Drawing inspiration from [6], we employ
a frozen DINOv2 [30] to extract patch tokens from the
reference image. We add a learnable linear layer after
DINOv2 to project these tokens, which are then injected
into the UNet through newly added cross-attention layers.
Prior inversion. Previous methods [19, 25, 27, 41, 45]
prove that using an inverted noise of the reference image,
rather than a pure Gaussian noise, could effectively provide
appearance priors. During inference, we add the inversion
of the reference latent r0 to the noise latent znT of frame n
at the initial denoising step (T), following Eq. (3).
z̃nT = αn · Inv(r0 ) + (1 − αn ) · znT ,

n−2

I(Xn ) =

1X
SSIM(xi , xi+1 ).
n i=0

SSIM(x, y) = l(x, y)α · c(x, y)β · s(x, y)γ .

(4)
(5)

The structure similarity considers the luminance (l), contrast (c), and structure (s) differences between two images.
By default, α, β, and γ are set as 1.
We compute the motion intensity on the training data to
determine the overall distribution and categorize the values
into 10 levels. We create a 1-channel map filled with the
level numbers and concatenate it with the input of UNet.
During inference, users can utilize level 5 as the default
intensity or adjust it between levels 1 to 10. Throughout
this paper, unless specified, we use level 5 as the default.

3.5. Text Re-weighting
Another challenge in instructing video motions arises from
the fact that the text prompt encompasses both “content
descriptions” and “motion descriptions”. The “content
descriptions”, translated by the frozen Stable Diffusion,
often fail to perfectly align with the reference images. When
we expect the text prompts to guide the motion, the “content
descriptions” are inherently accentuated simultaneously.
However, as the reference image provides superior content
guidance, the effect of the whole text would be suppressed
when content conflicts appear.
To accentuate the part related to the “motion descriptions”, we explore manipulating the CLIP text embeddings. Recognizing that directly tuning the text encoder
on limited samples might impact generalization, we assign
different weights for each embedding without disrupting the
CLIP feature space. Concretely, we add three trainable
transformer layers and a linear projection layer after the
CLIP text embeddings. Afterward, the predicted weights
are normed from 0 to 1 with a sigmoid function. These
weights are then multiplied with the corresponding text
embeddings, thereby providing guidance that focuses on
directing the motions. The comprehensive structure of the
text re-weighting module and actual examples are depicted

(3)

where αn is a descending coefficient from the first frame
to the last frame. We set αn as a linear interpolation from
0.033 to 0.016 by default.

3.4. Motion Intensity Estimation
It is challenging to align the motion coherently with the
text. We analyze the core issue is that the text lacks
descriptions for the motion speed and magnitude. Thus,
the same text leads to various motion intensities, creating
ambiguity in the optimization process. To address this, we
leverage the motion intensity as an additional condition. We
4

--- Page 5 ---
Text Embeddings
…

The bear is dancing.
0.52

Transformer Encoder Layer
Transformer Encoder Layer
Transformer Encoder Layer

0.79

0.83

0.85

A Shiba Inu is sitting down on the ground.
0.52

0.65

0.82

0.86

0.82

0.59

0.62

0.61

The hair of the woman flies in the wind.

Linear

0.50

Sigmoid
…

0.69

0.60

0.55

0.59

0.73

0.69 0.58

Reference Latent

0.72

The little boy in red opens his mouth.
0.52

0.51

0.60

0.59 0.70

0.78

0.70

0.76

Multiplication

Figure 3. Demonstrations for text re-weighting. We use three
transformer encoder layers and a frame-specific linear layer to
predict the weight for each text token. Examples are given on the
right. In cases where multiple tokens correspond to a single word,
we calculate the average weight for better visualization. The words
with the maximum weight are underlined.

Reference Latent + Content Encoder

Reference Latent + Content Encoder + Prior Inversion

Ref Image

in Fig. 3. The numerical results prove that the module
successfully learns to emphasize the “motion descriptions”.
This allows signals from images and texts to integrate more
effectively, resulting in stronger text-to-motion control.

“The man is smiling.”

Figure 4. Ablations for the image content guidance. Only
concatenating the reference latent with the model input meets
challenges in preserving the identity. The content encoder and
prior inversion gradually enhance the performance.

4. Experiments

Table 1. Quatitative analysis for image content guidance. We
assess frame consistency using DINO and CLIP scores. The
content encoder and prior inversion bring steady improvements.

4.1. Implementation Details
Training configurations. We implement LivePhoto based
on the frozen Stable Diffusion v1.5 [35]. The structure
of our Motion Module aligns with AnimateDiff [10]. Our
model is trained on the WebVID [1] dataset employing 8
A100 GPUs. We sample training videos with 16 frames,
perform center-cropping, and resize each frame to 256 ×
256 pixels. For classifier-free guidance, we utilize a 0.5
probability of dropping the text prompt during training. We
only use a simple MSE loss to train the model.
Evaluation protocols. We conduct user studies to compare
our approach with previous methods and analyze our newly
designed modules. To validate the generalization ability,
we gather images from various domains encompassing
real images and cartoons including humans, animals, still
objects, natural sceneries, etc. For quantitative assessment,
we utilize the validation set of WebVID [1]. The first
frame and prompt are used as controls to generate videos.
We measure the average CLIP similarity [32] and DINO
similarity [30] between adjacent frames to evaluate the
frame consistency following previous works [8, 43].

Method
Reference Latent
+ Content Encoder
++ Prior Inversion

DINO Score (↑)

CLIP Score (↑)

82.3
85.9
90.8

91.7
93.2
95.2

holistic identity information. Besides, the prior inversion
further assists the generation of details. In Fig. 4, we
illustrate the step-by-step integration of these elements. In
row 1, the reference latent could only keep the identity
for the starting frames as the contents are similar to the
reference image. After adding the content encoder in
row 2, the identity for the subsequent frames could be
better preserved but the generation quality for the details
is not satisfactory. With the inclusion of prior inversion, the
overall quality sees further improvement. The quantitative
results in Tab. 1 consistently confirm the effectiveness of
each module. These three strategies serve as the core of our
strong baseline for real image animation.
Motion intensity guidance. As introduced in Sec. 3.4, we
parameterize the motion intensity as a coefficient, and use
it to indicate the motion speed and ranges. We carry out
ablation studies in Fig. 5. The absence of motion intensity
guidance often leads to static or erratic video outputs, as
depicted in the first row. However, with the introduction
of intensity guidance, the subsequent rows display varying
motion levels, allowing for the production of high-quality
videos with different motion ranges. Notably, lower levels
like level 2 generate almost static videos, while higher levels
like 10 occasionally produce overly vigorous motions.
Users could directly use the default value (level 5) or tailor
the intensity according to specific preferences.

4.2. Ablation Studies
In this section, we thoroughly analyze each of our proposed
modules to substantiate their effectiveness. We first analyze
how to add content guidance with the reference image,
which is an essential part of our framework. Following that,
we delve into the specifics of our newly introduced motion
intensity guidance and text re-weighting.
Image content guidance. As introduced in Sec. 3.2, we
concatenate the reference latent with the input as the pixelwise guidance and use a content encoder to provide the
5

--- Page 6 ---
Ref Image

w/o Motion Intensity Guidance

Ref Image

w/o Motion Intensity Guidance

Ref Image

Motion Intensity Level: 2

Ref Image

Motion Intensity Level: 5

Ref Image

Motion Intensity Level: 7

Ref Image

Motion Intensity Level: 10

Figure 5. Illustrations of motion intensity guidance. The prompt is “The bear is dancing”. Without intensity guidance, the generated
video tends to either keep still or quickly become blurry. With the option to set varying intensity levels, users can finely control the motion
range and speed. It should be noted that excessively high intensity levels might induce motion blur, as observed in the last case.
Table 2. Quatitative analysis for novel modules. Frame
consistency is measured by DINO and CLIP scores. Motion
intensity guidance and text re-weighting both make contributions.
Method

w/o Text Re-weighting. Does not follow the text.

LivePhoto
w/o Motion Intensity
w/o Text Re-weighting
w/o Text Re-weighting. Becomes a “baby”.

0.50

0.57

0.65

0.70

0.82

0.87

95.2
94.8
93.9

4.3. Comparisons with Existing Alternatives

w/ Text Re-weighting. Emphasizes “waving its hand.”
The little yellow baby dinosaur is waving its hand.
0.49

CLIP Score (↑)

90.8
90.3
90.1

As visualized in the bottom of Fig. 6, text re-weighting
elevates emphasis on motion descriptions like “waving its
hand”. This approach enables our model to faithfully follow
text-based instructions for motion details while upholding
image-consistent content with the reference image.
The quantitative results are listed in Tab. 2. The motion
intensity guidance and text re-weighting both contribute to
the frame consistency.

w/o Text Re-weighting. Becomes a “dinosaur”.

Ref Image

DINO Score (↑)

We compare LivePhoto with other works that support image
animation with text control. VideoComposer [43] is a
strong compositional generator covering various conditions
including image and text. GEN-2 [34] and Pikalabs [33]
are famous products that support image and text input.
I2VGEN-XL [9], AnimateDiff-I2V [25], Talesofai [41] are
open-source projects claiming similar abilities.
Qualitative analysis. In Fig. 7, we compare LivePhoto
with VideoComposer [43], Pikalabs [33], and GEN-2 [34]
with representative examples. The selected examples cover
animals, humans, cartoons, and natural scenarios. To reduce the randomness, we ran each method 8 times to select
the best result for more fair comparisons. VideoComposer
demonstrates proficiency in creating videos with significant
motion. However, as not specifically designed for photo
animation, the identity-keeping ability is not satisfactory.
The identities of the reference images are lost, especially for

0.57 0.86

Figure 6. Ablation for text re-weighting. Without re-weighting,
the model tends to either disregard the text entirely or fixate
on content-related descriptions like “baby dinosaur”. When reweighting is applied, content descriptions are suppressed while
motion-related details like “waving its hand” gain emphasis. The
predicted weights of text re-weighting are marked at the bottom.

Text re-weighting. In Fig. 6, we demonstrate the efficacy
of text re-weighting. In the given examples, the content description “baby dinosaur” would conflict with the reference
image. In the first three rows, without the assistance of reweighting, the frozen Stabel Diffusion tends to synthesize
the content through its understanding of the text. Thus,
the produced video tends to ignore the text and follow the
reference image as in row 1. In other cases, it has risks
of becoming a “baby” (row 2) or a “dinosaur” (row 3).
6

--- Page 7 ---
VideoComp
Pikalabs

VideoComp

GEN-2

Pikalabs

Ours

GEN-2
Ours

“The bear is waving its hand.”

Example 3

“Baymax kicks the ball.”

Example 5

“Fire burns on the grass stack.”

Example 2

“The woman with her hair flying in the wind.”

Example 4

“The little yellow baby dinosaur is waving its hand.”

Example 6

“The volcano emits thick smoke from its crater.”

Ours

Ours

GEN-2

GEN-2

Pikalabs

Pikalabs

VideoComp

VideoComp

Ours

Ours

GEN-2

GEN-2

Pikalabs

Pikalabs

VideoComp

VideoComp

Example 1

Figure 7. Comparison results with other methods. We compare our LivePhoto with VideoComposer [43], Pikalabs [33], and GEN2 [34]. We select representative cases covering animal, human, cartoon, and natural scenery. To ensure a fair evaluation, we executed
each method 8 times, presenting the most optimal outcomes for comparison. In each example, the reference image is displayed on the left,
accompanied by the text prompt indicated at the bottom.

7

--- Page 8 ---
VideoComposr [43]
Pikalabs [33]
GEN-2 [34]

2.8
3.9
3.7

3.5
2.7
2.5

3.6
4.6
4.8

3.6
3.1
3.3

LivePhoto
w/o text re-weighting
w/o intensity guidance

3.6
3.5
3.4

4.7
3.3
2.5

3.7
3.6
3.4

3.9
3.8
3.5

Ani-I2V
Talesofai

Cimage (↑) Ctext (↑) Qcont (↑) Qmot (↑)

Ours

Method

I2VGEN-XL

Table 3. Results of user study. We let annotators rate from four
perspectives: Image consistency (Cimage ) evaluates the capability
to maintain the identity of the reference image. Text consistency (Ctext ) measures the adherence to the textual descriptions
in directing motion. Content quality (Qcont ) focuses on the interframe coherence and resolutions. Motion quality (Qmot ) evaluates
appropriateness of motions.

Ref Image

less commonly seen subjects. Additionally, it shows a lack
of adherence to the provided text instructions. Pikalabs [33]
and GEN-2 [34] produce high-quality videos. However,
as a trade-off, the generated videos own limited motion
ranges. Although they support text as supplementary, the
text descriptions seldom work. The motions are generally
estimated from the content of the reference image.
In contrast, LivePhoto adeptly preserves the identity
of the reference image and generates consistent motions
with the text instructions. It performs admirably across
various domains, encompassing animals, humans, cartoon
characters, and natural sceneries. It not only animates
specific actions (examples 1-4) but also conjures new effects
from thin air (examples 5-6).
We also compare LivePhoto with open-sourced project
in Fig. 8. I2VGEN-XL [9] does not set the reference
image as the first frame but generates videos with similar
semantics. AnimateDiff-I2V [25] and Talsofai [41] are
extensions of AnimateDiff [10]. However, the former
produces quasi-static videos. The latter fails to keep the
image identity unless using SD-generated images with the
same prompt and corresponding LoRA [14].
User studies. Metrics like DINO/CLIP scores have limitations in thoroughly evaluating the model, thus, we carry out
user studies. We ask the annotators to rate the generated
videos from 4 perspectives: Image consistency evaluates
the identity-keeping ability of the reference image. Text
consistency measures whether the motion follows the text
descriptions. Content quality considers the general quality
of videos like the smoothness, the resolution, etc. Motion
quality assesses the reasonableness of generated motion,
encompassing aspects such as speed and deformation.
We construct a benchmark with five tracks: humans,
animals, cartoon characters, still objects, and natural sceneries. We collect 10 reference images per track and manually
write 2 prompts per image. Considering the variations
that commonly exist in video generation, each method is
required to predict 8 results. Thus, we get 800 samples for

“Poop emoji, the camera moves around from left to right.”

Figure 8. Comparisons with open-sourced projects. I2VGENXL [9], AnimateDiff-I2V [25], and Talesofai [41] also support animating an image with text. However, I2VGEN-XL only generates
“relevant” content with the reference image. The produced videos
of AnimateDiff-I2V rarely move. Talesofai could not keep the
identity for real photos.

each method. We first ask 4 annotators to pick the best ones
out of 8 predictions according to the aforementioned four
perspectives. Then, we ask 10 annotators to further rate the
filtered samples. As the projects [9, 25, 41] demonstrates
evidently inferior results, we only compare LivePhoto with
VideoComposer [43], GEN-2 [34], and Pikalabs [33].
Results in Tab. 3 demonstrate that GEN-2[34] and Pikalabs own slightly better image consistency because their
generated video seldom moves. LivePhoto shows significantly better text consistency and motion quality compared
with other works. We admit that GEN-2 and Pikalabs
own superior smoothness and resolution. We infer that
they might collect much better training data and leverage
super-resolution networks as post-processing. However,
as an academic method, LivePhoto shows distinguishing
advantages over mature products in certain aspects. We
have reasons to believe its potential for future applications.

5. Limitations
LivePhoto is implemented on SD-1.5 with 256 × 256 output
considering the training cost. We believe that with higher
resolution and stronger models like SD-XL [31], the overall
performance could be further improved significantly.

6. Conclusion
We introduce LivePhoto, a novel framework for photo
animation with text control. We propose a strong baseline
that gathers the image content guidance from the given
image and utilizes motion intensity as a supplementary
to better capture the desired motions.
Besides, we
propose text re-weighting to accentuate the motion
descriptions. The whole pipeline illustrates impressive
performance for generalized domains and instructions.

8

--- Page 9 ---
References

Fashion image-to-video synthesis via stable diffusion.
arXiv:2304.06025, 2023. 2
[18] Bahjat Kawar, Shiran Zada, Oran Lang, Omer Tov, Huiwen
Chang, Tali Dekel, Inbar Mosseri, and Michal Irani. Imagic:
Text-based real image editing with diffusion models. In
CVPR, 2023. 2
[19] Levon Khachatryan, Andranik Movsisyan, Vahram Tadevosyan, Roberto Henschel, Zhangyang Wang, Shant
Navasardyan, and Humphrey Shi. Text2video-zero: Textto-image diffusion models are zero-shot video generators.
arXiv:2303.13439, 2023. 2, 4
[20] Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding
variational bayes. arXiv:1312.6114, 2013. 3
[21] Zhengqi Li, Richard Tucker, Noah Snavely, and Aleksander
Holynski. Generative image dynamics. arXiv:2309.07906,
2023. 2
[22] Jun Hao Liew, Hanshu Yan, Jianfeng Zhang, Zhongcong Xu,
and Jiashi Feng. Magicedit: High-fidelity and temporally
coherent video editing. arXiv:2308.14749, 2023. 2
[23] Zhiheng Liu, Ruili Feng, Kai Zhu, Yifei Zhang, Kecheng
Zheng, Yu Liu, Deli Zhao, Jingren Zhou, and Yang Cao.
Cones: Concept neurons in diffusion models for customized
generation. arXiv:2303.05125, 2023. 2
[24] Zhiheng Liu, Yifei Zhang, Yujun Shen, Kecheng Zheng, Kai
Zhu, Ruili Feng, Yu Liu, Deli Zhao, Jingren Zhou, and Yang
Cao. Cones 2: Customizable image synthesis with multiple
subjects. arXiv:2305.19327, 2023. 2
[25] Tyler Luan. Animatediff-i2v. https://github.com/
ykk648/AnimateDiff-I2V, 2023. 2, 4, 6, 8
[26] Aniruddha Mahapatra and Kuldeep Kulkarni. Controllable
animation of fluid elements in still images. In CVPR, 2022.
2
[27] Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jiajun
Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Stefano Ermon. Sdedit: Guided
image synthesis and editing with stochastic differential equations. arXiv:2108.01073, 2021. 4
[28] Chong Mou, Xintao Wang, Liangbin Xie, Jian Zhang,
Zhongang Qi, Ying Shan, and Xiaohu Qie. T2i-adapter:
Learning adapters to dig out more controllable ability for
text-to-image diffusion models. arXiv:2302.08453, 2023. 2
[29] Makoto Okabe, Ken Anjyo, Takeo Igarashi, and Hans-Peter
Seidel. Animating pictures of fluid using video examples. In
Computer Graphics Forum. Wiley Online Library, 2009. 2
[30] Maxime Oquab, Timothée Darcet, Théo Moutakanni, Huy
Vo, Marc Szafraniec, Vasil Khalidov, Pierre Fernandez,
Daniel Haziza, Francisco Massa, Alaaeldin El-Nouby, et al.
Dinov2: Learning robust visual features without supervision.
arXiv:2304.07193, 2023. 4, 5
[31] Dustin Podell, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Andreas
Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Jonas Müller, Joe Penna, and
Robin Rombach. Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models
for high-resolution image synthesis. arXiv:2307.01952,
2023. 8
[32] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. Learning
transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2021. 4, 5

[1] Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Gül Varol, and Andrew Zisserman. Frozen in time: A joint video and image encoder for
end-to-end retrieval. In ICCV, 2021. 5
[2] Andreas Blattmann, Robin Rombach, Huan Ling, Tim Dockhorn, Seung Wook Kim, Sanja Fidler, and Karsten Kreis.
Align your latents: High-resolution video synthesis with
latent diffusion models. In CVPR, 2023. 2, 4
[3] Wenhao Chai, Xun Guo, Gaoang Wang, and Yan Lu.
Stablevideo: Text-driven consistency-aware diffusion video
editing. In ICCV, 2023. 2
[4] Junsong Chen, Jincheng Yu, Chongjian Ge, Lewei Yao,
Enze Xie, Yue Wu, Zhongdao Wang, James Kwok, Ping
Luo, Huchuan Lu, et al. Pixart: Fast training of diffusion transformer for photorealistic text-to-image synthesis.
arXiv:2310.00426, 2023. 2
[5] Tsai-Shien Chen, Chieh Hubert Lin, Hung-Yu Tseng,
Tsung-Yi Lin, and Ming-Hsuan Yang.
Motionconditioned diffusion model for controllable video synthesis.
arXiv:2304.14404, 2023. 2
[6] Xi Chen, Lianghua Huang, Yu Liu, Yujun Shen, Deli Zhao,
and Hengshuang Zhao. Anydoor: Zero-shot object-level
image customization. arXiv:2307.09481, 2023. 2, 4
[7] Chia-Chi Cheng, Hung-Yu Chen, and Wei-Chen Chiu. Time
flies: Animating a still image with time-lapse video as
reference. In CVPR, 2020. 2
[8] Patrick Esser, Johnathan Chiu, Parmida Atighehchian,
Jonathan Granskog, and Anastasis Germanidis. Structure
and content-guided video synthesis with diffusion models.
In ICCV, 2023. 2, 5
[9] Alibaba group. I2vgen-xl. https://modelscope.cn/
models/damo/Video- to- Video/summary, 2023.
2, 6, 8
[10] Yuwei Guo, Ceyuan Yang, Anyi Rao, Yaohui Wang, Yu
Qiao, Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai. Animatediff: Animate your
personalized text-to-image diffusion models without specific
tuning. arXiv:2307.04725, 2023. 2, 3, 4, 5, 8
[11] Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising
diffusion probabilistic models. NeurIPS, 2020. 2, 3
[12] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William
Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video
diffusion models. arXiv:2204.03458, 2022. 2
[13] Aleksander Holynski, Brian L Curless, Steven M Seitz, and
Richard Szeliski. Animating pictures with eulerian motion
fields. In CVPR, 2021. 2
[14] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan AllenZhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu
Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models.
arXiv:2106.09685, 2021. 3, 8
[15] Yaosi Hu, Chong Luo, and Zhenzhong Chen. Make it
move: controllable image-to-video generation with text
descriptions. In CVPR, 2022. 2
[16] Wei-Cih Jhou and Wen-Huang Cheng. Animating still landscape photographs through cloud motion creation. TMM,
2015. 2
[17] Johanna Karras, Aleksander Holynski, Ting-Chun
Wang, and Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman.
Dreampose:

9

--- Page 10 ---
[48] Jianfeng Zhang, Hanshu Yan, Zhongcong Xu, Jiashi Feng,
and Jun Hao Liew. Magicavatar: Multimodal avatar generation and animation. arXiv:2308.14748, 2023. 2
[49] Lvmin Zhang and Maneesh Agrawala.
Adding
conditional control to text-to-image diffusion models.
arXiv:2302.05543, 2023. 2
[50] Jian Zhao and Hui Zhang. Thin-plate spline motion model
for image animation. In CVPR, 2022. 2
[51] Ruiqi Zhao, Tianyi Wu, and Guodong Guo. Sparse to dense
motion transfer for face image animation. In ICCV, 2021. 2

[33] PikaLabs reseachers. Pikalabs: An innovative text-to-video
platform. https://www.pika.art/, 2023.10. 2, 6, 7,
8
[34] Runway reseachers. Gen-2: The next step forward for
generative ai. https://research.runwayml.com/
gen2, 2023.10. 2, 6, 7, 8
[35] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz,
Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image
synthesis with latent diffusion models. In IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog., 2022. 2, 3, 4, 5
[36] Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch,
Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman. Dreambooth: Fine
tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven
generation. In IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog.,
2023. 2
[37] Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala
Li, Jay Whang, Emily L Denton, Kamyar Ghasemipour,
Raphael Gontijo Lopes, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Tim Salimans,
et al. Photorealistic text-to-image diffusion models with deep
language understanding. Adv. Neural Inform. Process. Syst.,
2022. 2
[38] Yoav Shalev and Lior Wolf. Image animation with perturbed
masks. In CVPR, 2022. 2
[39] Aliaksandr Siarohin, Stéphane Lathuilière, Sergey Tulyakov,
Elisa Ricci, and Nicu Sebe. First order motion model for
image animation. NeurIPS, 2019. 2
[40] Uriel Singer, Adam Polyak, Thomas Hayes, Xi Yin, Jie An,
Songyang Zhang, Qiyuan Hu, Harry Yang, Oron Ashual,
Oran Gafni, et al. Make-a-video: Text-to-video generation
without text-video data. arXiv:2209.14792, 2022. 2
[41] talesofai. Animatediff talesofai. https://github.
com/talesofai/AnimateDiff, 2023. 2, 4, 6, 8
[42] Tan Wang, Linjie Li, Kevin Lin, Chung-Ching Lin,
Zhengyuan Yang, Hanwang Zhang, Zicheng Liu, and Lijuan
Wang. Disco: Disentangled control for referring human
dance generation in real world. arXiv:2307.00040, 2023. 2
[43] Xiang Wang, Hangjie Yuan, Shiwei Zhang, Dayou Chen,
Jiuniu Wang, Yingya Zhang, Yujun Shen, Deli Zhao, and
Jingren Zhou. Videocomposer: Compositional video synthesis with motion controllability. NeurIPS, 2023. 2, 5, 6, 7,
8
[44] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P
Simoncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility
to structural similarity. TIP, 2004. 4
[45] Jay Zhangjie Wu, Yixiao Ge, Xintao Wang, Stan Weixian
Lei, Yuchao Gu, Yufei Shi, Wynne Hsu, Ying Shan, Xiaohu
Qie, and Mike Zheng Shou. Tune-a-video: One-shot tuning
of image diffusion models for text-to-video generation. In
ICCV, 2023. 2, 4
[46] Zeyue Xue, Guanglu Song, Qiushan Guo, Boxiao Liu,
Zhuofan Zong, Yu Liu, and Ping Luo. Raphael: Textto-image generation via large mixture of diffusion paths.
NeurIPS, 2023. 2
[47] Shengming Yin, Chenfei Wu, Huan Yang, Jianfeng Wang,
Xiaodong Wang, Minheng Ni, Zhengyuan Yang, Linjie
Li, Shuguang Liu, Fan Yang, et al. Nuwa-xl: Diffusion over diffusion for extremely long video generation.
arXiv:2303.12346, 2023. 2

10
